If I were doing this really "F.A.Q. style",
[i.e.,] "frequently-asked-questions",
one of the most frequently asked questions
I get is,
"But do we really know what the Buddha originally
said?"
How can we actually know what the Buddha taught,
thought, what his philosophy was,
before all these mysterious centuries came
and went.
People ask me all kinds of questions about
Buddhism,
and, at least half of the time, they ask me
questions that they think they already know
the answer to,
as if they're going to trap me in some kind
of cognitive-dissonance-conundrum,
and then they're shocked that, no, I just
know the answer to the question,
and it's just a fact, and they could have
known it, and they never did.
So, here's a big one: do we know what the
Buddha actually said? Do we have an historical
record of what the Buddha said, and taught
and thought,
or, is it some mystery, lost in the passage
of centuries?
Guess what? The answer is, yes, we do know.
And we know the same way we know what Plato
thought, and how Aristotle thought, and how
all kinds of philosophers from the Han dynasty
in ancient China thought. And we know it because
somebody wrote it down.
It's not surprising at all that Buddhism survived,
as a written philosophy.
Buddhism is one of the most influential philosophies
in the world,
and it happens to be a philosophy that was
paired with a religion that convinced millions
of people
(not thousands, but millions)
that the most important thing they could do
with their money was donate it to Buddhist
monks so they could copy out the texts by
hand to preserve them and recite them orally
in public performances.
When you've got that kind of weight, that
kind of patronage backing you...
Let me just translate, "Patronage" means money.
When you've got that kind of money supporting
your philosophy, then it's not really surprising
at all that it survives the centuries.
Let's look at a comparison that failed: the
philosophy of Lucretius.
Maybe 80% of you don't know who Lucretius
was, or the name is just slightly familiar
from something you heard on National Public
Radio, or some kind of pretentious source
like that.
Lucretius was one of the most influential
philosophers in the history of the world.
Did his philosophy survive? Yes.
How? It was written down on paper.
Is anyone surprised, is anyone impressed,
that this ancient philosophy managed to make
it through the centuries?
Well, only for one reason, and that is that
a different religion, a different philosophy
tried to persecute the followers of Lucretius,
tried to destroy the texts written down about
Lucretius (and his own texts), so that none
were left.
What was the religion that persecuted the
philosophy of Lucretius? Christianity.
So, history is funny that way.
Yeah, sometimes we're surprised, we're impressed
that something ancient survived into the modern
era, because, in the centuries in-between,
some group of people who had money, and violence,
and armies behind them, tried to destroy it.
That was the case with Lucretius, but still
Lucretius is still here, you can get him out
of the library, in almost any language. It
has been translated into English a lot better
than the philosophy of the Buddha has been
translated.
There's a sad comparison: how many translators
have worked on Lucretius, as opposed to how
many translators have studied the Pali canon,
just in the last few hundred years.
Well, um... Did Buddhism encounter any similar
obstacle in its history in the last few centuries?
Yes. Yes, actually.
There was another religion and another philosophy
that tried to exterminate the followers of
Buddhism and destroy all of the texts, and
all of the statues, and every remnant of Buddhism,
and it was pretty successful in a little country
you might have heard of called India, and
another area to the north of India that's
today known as Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Do you know where I'm going with this?
Yes, that's right, Islam, as a religion, was
very, very successful in destroying Buddhism,
in destroying any trace of its teachings.
You can look further east to a country like
Indonesia. There are still a lot of tourists
who go to visit the ruins of Buddhist civilization
in Indonesia, places like Borobudur, but,
(guess what?) today, the vast majority of
people in Indonesia are Mulsim, and the Buddhists
who are there immigrated more recently from
China.
The indigenous tradition of the religion has
disappeared.
Ah, but maybe I'm not addressing the real
question looming here.
Why do people find it so surprising when I
give this simple, direct answer, that, yeah,
the philosophy of the Buddha is written down.
Yeah, you can know what it is, if you just
do the same kind of work I did, you can read
it.
There's no excuse for being balefully ignorant
of one of the most influential philosophies
in the history of the world.
Well, it's because Buddhists themselves like
to tell a lot of lies about this.
I can't blame Muslims for telling these lies:
Mulsims are straightforward about what their
religion is, and what Buddhism is, and why
one group of people hates the other.
But Buddhists themselves have this long list
of excuses for why everybody's got time...[roaring
sound above]
(Air-force jets passing overhead.)
...everybody's got time to worship a statue,
everybody's got time for a long list of rituals
and ceremonies, but nobody gets around to
studying the philosophy of the Buddha.
I remember I had a funny experience with a
Zen Buddhist monk (in the Korean tradition
of Zen) who was actively trying to convert
me to Korean Zen,
and I kept pointing out to him, "Yeah, but,
you guys don't study the philosophy, you don't
have any contact with the philosophy of Buddhism,"
"You just perform these rituals, day after
day, and you chant the same one sutta again
and again."
(A sutta that barely managed to get over the
fence from badly-garbled Sanskrit into garbled
Chinese, and then from Chinese into Korean.)
And, you know, from a Zen perspective, from
the perspective of a lot of modern, authoritarian
traditions,
anyone who reads the texts is a threat to
the authority of the monk in charge.
It's a lot more convenient to organize your
religion around silence, subservience to authority,
nobody asking questions, nobody debating the
philosophy.
And if anyone says, "Wait a minute, what about
this guy called, 'The Buddha'?"
"His name is the same as the name of the religion."
"Shouldn't we be reading what he actually
wrote or said or something?"
Oh, [there is] a list of excuses ready to
go, one of which is, "Oh, oh, well, there
are more than 40,000 sutras recording the
Buddha's teaching, we could never study them
all."
Yeah, that's a great excuse, like, you can't
read all 40,000, so why even bother trying
to read, say, 500 or 1,000, right?
Other [excuses] are, "Oh, no, no, the real
teaching of the Buddha is lost in the mists
of time, so, you know, there's really no point."
"Therefore, just perform this ritual, just
do this meditation practice, just drink this
magic tea...".
Buddhists [have] a lot of interest in drinking
fancy tea for some reason, not so much [interest
in] reading the philosophy.
And, you know, this will be the substitute
[offered as an excuse].
[As if] somehow you're going to magically
re-capture the essence of the original Buddha's
teaching, not through study and hard work,
but through rituals and drinking tea,
and asking for donations, and then spending
the money from those donations,
that's been going on for a few centuries now,
and, mysteriously, nobody gets back to the
original philosophy of the Buddha, so, I think,
maybe we could all afford to change tactics
at this point.
However, another big comparison is to something
like Jesus: his original teachings were not
very well recorded, and yet Christians are
obsessed with reading the Bible, and with
getting familiar with the earliest writings
available about Jesus. That doesn't seem to
be a big hang-up for them, so... there's more
than one comparison possible.
But Buddhism came out of a cultural background
very different from Judaism,
very different from Jesus-ism, whatever you
call that these days,
and, y'know, that was different partly because
ancient India (before Buddhism emerged) was
already a culture obsessed with the idea that
a man should memorize and recite sacred text
every day.
A man who was a lawyer, or the equivalent
of a mayor, a chieftan, he wouldn't rely on
written law,
no, no, no, the law of the county or the kingdom,
that would be something set out in simple
verses to be memorized and recited,
and one of the reasons for that is that when
you have a text memorized, you can call it
to mind immediately.
You can seem very authoritative, you can seem
like you're in charge.
In Europe, we don't have a tradition like
this. We don't expect the chieftan or the
king to have the laws memorized, and ready-to-mind
at a moment's notice.
But it's humanly possible, I mean, the number
of people who have memorized the entire text
of Hamlet is amazing,
because Hamlet is really long and hard to
memorize,
and many of the actors who are chosen to memorize
Hamlet aren't particularly intelligent,
they're just really good-looking, or charismatic,
or, y'know, they're chosen for the role for
some other reason.
So, ordinary people can memorize a lot of
text. Human history has shown that again and
again.
But ancient India was obsessed with this notion...
well, let's not fault them. This was a central,
cultural value, already under Hinduism with
reciting the Vedas, with reciting law, with
reciting sacred texts in the ancient Hindu
tradition.
And Buddhism emerged in that context,
so did ancient Jainism. Jainism, again, volumes
and volumes of text were produced by Jainism,
recited, memorized, performed. Right?
Then we transition into a period of history
when that's backed up with meticulous, hand-made
books, copying these texts out, again and
again.
Hey, how did Lucretius survive?
Lucretius was a philosopher, he didn't have
millions of people devoting their lives to
copying out his writing by hand and memorizing
it, and performing it in public.
He didn't have millions of people who believed
that this was a profoundly meaningful, magical,
transcendental act, to try to keep his words
alive, in exactly the form he wrote them,
but Buddhism did. Buddhism had the weight
of this cultural obsession behind it, from
day 1.
And so did Jainism. Jainism, again, the text
still exists.
It's not that surprising. Maybe it's much
more surprising that we have any texts left
from a culture like ancient Egypt, but, we
do. We have texts from ancient China. The
ancient Han Chinese didn't have this culture
of preserving text.
So, Buddhist texts survived, despite being
conquered by Islam, because Buddhism spread
outside of the area that was conquered by
Islam.
Buddhism disappeared in India, Buddhism disappeared
in Indonesia, if the Muslims had conquered
all of Asia right up to Japan, then, yeah,
Buddhism would have disappeared from this
world, and we wouldn't know what the Buddha
taught.
But in places like Sri Lanka, in Myanmar,
yup, you can read what the Buddha really said...
I'll come back to how that is, [but] to me,
it shouldn't be surprising, it shouldn't be
shocking to anyone,
and, yeah, in fragments, it survived in Tibet
(Tibet was never conquered by Muslims), it
survived in China in a very garbled form,
in the Chinese Agamas, you can [barely] piece
it together [from Chinese sources], yeah,
China, also, [was] not conquered by Muslim
armies,
although they've had their own tumultuous
history.
That's the long and the short of it.
Of course the texts exist.
Any monk who tells you the texts don't exist
is offering you the most pathetic excuse for
his own ignorance,
and it is his job to be a custodian of these
texts,
it is his job to represent this philosophy,
to give voice to this philosophy,
and to practice the philosophy.
It's nobody else's job. It's not my job!
If you're a Buddhist monk, you should step
up, and rep your set; you should do the bare
minimum here.
Okay, then, the other area of slightly phony
skepticism is, "Well, you got this thing called
the Pali Canon."
"There are a lot of pages, and it's very heavy."
"It looks like hard work to study."
Y'know, "How much of this is the recorded
word of the Buddha?"
Well, look, man, go to the library, and look
at the works of Plato. Y'know, it's also really
big, it's really heavy.
Yeah, if you want to dig into the footnotes
with Plato, how do we really know what Plato
wrote?
Y'know, there's more than one version, there
are comparisons, there are minor differences
in wording,
it's heavy, it's daunting.
Guess what? So is Shakespeare.
How do we know what the real text is of Shakespeare's
Hamlet? It was a lot of work for somebody,
sure.
You can go through, you can compare different
extant manuscripts, you can look at minor
differences in wording, different versions,
yeah, that exists.
But, for 99.9% of people, those issues are
irrelevant.
99.9% of people see Hamlet, read Plato, hear
about Lucretius on the radio, and they're
not digging into the text in that kind of
detail.
I have! I've written some essays, you can
read Canon and Reason, it deals with some
of these more detailed issues of "How did
the text survive?" What are the issues with
comparative reading of different sources,
and how do we know what we know.
Man... are five people going to read that
essay? Maybe 15 people are going to read that
essay?
Very few people have the kind of detailed
interest to dig into that issue.
And I'm not complaining! It's natural! It's
the same with Shakespeare or Plato: almost
nobody wants to know.
So, don't pretend that those issues, those
kinds of footnoted, scholarly issues, in establishing
the details of the text, are a valid excuse
for not knowing the philosophy at all.
They're not a valid excuse for the average
person,
and they're definitely not an excuse for a
Buddhist monk,
who has a kind of professional obligation
to know about this guy called the Buddha whose
name is in the name of the religion.
[Noise of an airplane overheaed.]
We're still fighting World War Two here. It
hasn't ended yet.
So, you look at a text, for example, like
the Bhaddekaratta Sutta.
You have multiple versions of the text that
are grouped together in the Pali canon,
and already in the ancient period, there was
an interest in preserving more than one interpretation
of the text.
There's a poem at its core, which is the same
in the different versions, and then we get
different Buddhist monks, and the Buddha himself,
offering, uh, an interpretation or an explanation
of the poem.
Also built into that example is the idea that
it's the obligation of the monk to memorize
and recite this kind of religious poetry.
So, yeah, at its core, Buddhism was a religion
obsessed with memorizing and reciting the
philosophical poetry written down by the master,
by the founder of the religion, the guy we
call the Buddha,
and, y'know, any concerns you might have,
that the poem as it exists today is not precisely
what existed 2,500 years ago,
it's a valid concern,
and I'd encourage you, if you've got the brains,
you can apply that concern to Plato, you can
apply it to any other ancient text,
but, when you dig into those details, it's
not going to give you the answers to the questions
you want to know.
The questions that most people are interested
in --philosophically-- are not philological
details.
And the fact that those philological details
exist isn't an excuse for your own ignorance.
I can do another Youtube video dealing with
philological details, but, I mean, like, maybe
5 people are going to watch it, right?